federalist 32 the same subject continued
concerning the general power of taxation
from the daily advertiser
thursday january 3rd 1788 hamilton
to the people of the state of new york
although i am of opinion that there
would be no real danger of the
consequences which seem to be
apprehended to the state governments
from a power in the union to control
them in the levies of money
because i am persuaded that the sense of
the people the extreme hazard of
provoking the resentments of the state
governments and a conviction of the
utility and necessity of local
administrations for local purposes
would be a complete barrier against the
oppressive use of such a power
yet i am willing here to allow in its
full extent the justness
of the reasoning which requires that the
individual states should possess an
independent and
uncontrollable authority to raise their
own revenues for the supply of their own
wants
and making this concession i affirmed
that with the sole exception of duties
on imports and exports
they would under the plan of the
convention retain that authority in the
most absolute and unqualified sense
and that an attempt on the part of the
national government to abridge them
in the exercise of it would be a violent
assumption of power
unwarranted by any article or clause of
its constitution
an entire consolidation of the states
into one complete national sovereignty
would imply an entire subordination of
the parts
and whatever powers might retain in them
would be altogether dependent on the
general will
but as the plan of the convention aims
only at a partial union or consolidation
the state governments would clearly
retain all the rights of sovereignty
which they before had
and which were not by that act
exclusively delegated to the united
states
this exclusive delegation or rather this
alienation of state sovereignty
would only exist in three cases where
the constitution and express terms
granted an exclusive authority to the
union
where it granted in one instance an
authority to the union and
in another prohibited the states from
exercising the like authority
and where it granted an authority to the
union to which a similar authority in
the states would be absolutely and
totally contradictory and repugnant
i use these terms to distinguish this
last case from another which might
appear to resemble it
but which would in fact be essentially
different i mean where the exercise of a
concurrent jurisdiction
might be productive of occasional
interferences of the policy of any
branch of administration but would not
imply any direct contradiction or
repugnancy in point of constitutional
authority
these three cases of exclusive
jurisdiction in the federal government
may be exemplified by the following
instances
the last clause but one in the eighth
section of the first article provides
expressly that congress shall
exercise exclusive legislation over the
district to be appropriated as the seat
of government
this answers to the first case the first
clause of the same section empowers
congress
to lay and collect taxes duties and
imposts and excises and the second
clause of the tenth section of the same
article declares that
no state shall without the consent of
congress lay any imposts or duties on
imports or exports
except for the purpose of executing its
inspection laws
hence would result in exclusive power in
the union to lay duties on imports and
exports with the particular exception
mentioned
but this power is abridged by another
clause which declares that no tax or
duty shall be laid on articles exported
from any state
in consequence of which qualification it
now only extends to the duties on
imports
this answers to the second case the
third will be found in that clause which
declares that congress shall have power
to establish a uniform rule of
naturalization throughout the united
states
this must necessarily be exclusive
because if each state had power to
prescribe a distinct rule
there could not be a uniform rule a case
which may perhaps be thought to resemble
the latter
but which is in fact widely different
affects the question immediately under
consideration
i mean the power of imposing taxes on
all articles other than exports and
imports
this i contend is manifestly a
concurrent and co-equal authority in the
united states and in the individual
states
there is plainly no expression in the
granting clause which makes that power
exclusive in the union
there is no independent clause or
sentence which prohibits the states from
exercising it
so far is this from being the case that
a plain and conclusive argument to the
contrary is to be deduced from the
restraint laid upon the states in
relation to duties on imports and
exports
this restriction implies an admission
that if it were not inserted the states
would possess
the power it excludes and it implies a
further admission that as to all other
taxes the authority of the states
remains undiminished
in any other view it would be both
unnecessary and dangerous
it would be unnecessary because if the
grant to the union of the power of
laying such duties implied the exclusion
of the states
or even their subordination in this
particular there could be no need of
such a restriction
it would be dangerous because the
introduction of it leads directly to the
conclusion which has been mentioned
and which if the reasoning of the
objectors be just could not have been
intended
i mean that the states in all cases to
which the restriction did not apply
would have a concurrent power of
taxation with the union
the restriction in question amounts to
what lawyers call a negative pregnant
that is a negation of one thing and an
affirmance of another
a negation of the authority of the
states to impose taxes on imports and
exports
and an affirmance of their authority to
impose them on all other articles
it would be mere sophistry to argue that
it was meant to exclude them absolutely
from the imposition of taxes of the
former kind
and to leave them at liberty to lay
others subject to the control of the
national legislature
the restraining or prohibitory clause
only says that they shall not
without the consent of congress lay such
duties and if we are to understand this
in the sense last mentioned
the constitution would then be made to
introduce a formal provision
for the sake of a very absurd conclusion
which is that the states
with the consent of the national
legislature might tax imports and
exports
and that they might tax every other
article unless controlled by the same
body
if this was the intention why not leave
it in the first instance
to what is alleged to be the natural
operation of the original clause
conferring a general power of taxation
upon the union
it is evident that this could not have
been the intention and that it will not
bear a construction of the kind
as to a supposition of repugnancy
between the power of taxation in the
states and in the union
it cannot be supported in that sense
which would be requisite to work and
exclusion of the state
it is indeed possible that attacks might
be laid on a particular article by a
state which might render it inexpedient
that thus a further tax should be laid
on the same article by the union
but it would not imply a constitutional
inability to impose a further tax
the quantity of the imposition the
expediency or inexpediency of an
increase on either side
would be mutually questions of prudence
but there would be involved no direct
contradiction of power
the particular policy of the national
and of the state systems of finance
might now and then not exactly coincide
and might require reciprocal
forbearances it is not however a mere
possibility of inconvenience in the
exercise of powers
but an immediate constitutional
repugnancy that can by implication
alienate and extinguish a pre-existing
right of sovereignty
the necessity of a concurrent
jurisdiction in certain cases results
from the division of the sovereign power
and the rule that all authorities
of which the states are not explicitly
divested in favor of the union remain
with them in full vigor
is not a theoretical consequence of that
division but is clearly admitted by the
whole tenor of the instrument which
contains the articles of the proposed
constitution
we there find that notwithstanding the
affirmative grants of general
authorities
there has been the most pointed care in
those cases where it was deemed improper
that the like authorities should reside
in the states
to insert negative clauses prohibiting
the exercise of them by the states
the tenth section of the first article
consists altogether of such provisions
this circumstance is a clear indication
of the sense of the convention and
furnishes a rule of interpretation
out of the body of the act which
justifies the position which i have
advanced and refutes every hypothesis to
the contrary
publius